---
layout: post
title:  "New in version 2.5"
date:   2017-06-19 12:00:00
categories: release-notes
excerpt: What is new in version 2.5?
---
Version 2.5 adds a bunch of new functionality. This articles lists all of them.

* Do not remove this line (it will not be displayed)
{:toc}

# Post-installation script

In this release, I focused mainly on the post-installation scripts, as the old features ran out of possibilities. 

## Shortcomings of the old post-installation scripts

In versions before `2.5`, there were two types of post-installation scripts: `Plugin`s and `Shell`s. By design it was allowed that a `Plugin` could contain a `Shell` with its corresponding commands. Unfortunately, this made the difference between those two post-installation script types very little. When a `Plugin` had no `Shell`, it would download it from the repository.
A logical step was removing the support to add a `Shell` to the `Plugin` and renaming `Plugin` to `Remote`. As you will notice, we now refer to a plugin as a post-installation script that can be downloaded by a `Remote`. I know, it's a bit confusing.

## New post-installation types

As of version 2.5 each script should contain a `name` and a `type` field. The `name` will be printed out to the user so that he knows what `Parcks` is doing.

### Types
#### Remote
This is the old `Plugin` object. You can use it to download a post-installation script from another location.
{% highlight json %}
{
"type":"remote",
"name":"Nextcloud",
"url":"https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Parcks/plugins/master/debian/NextcloudPlugin.ppl"
}
{% endhighlight %}
The above example is taken from the [Nextcloud installer](https://github.com/Parcks/plugins/blob/master/debian/NextcloudPlugin.ppl). It will download the post-installation script specified by the `url` field. Afterwards it will start executing the downloaded post-installation script (now called a plugin).

#### File creation

As the name suggests, this will create a file. Again, the script requires the `name` field to display what `Parcks` is doing.

{% highlight json %}
{
    "root":true,
    "type":"file-create",
    "name":"Create server configuration file",
    "destination-path":"/etc/apache2/sites-available/nextcloud.conf",
    "contents":"Alias \/nextcloud \"\/var\/www\/nextcloud\/\"\r\n\r\n<Directory \/var\/www\/nextcloud\/>\r\n  Options +FollowSymlinks\r\n  AllowOverride All\r\n\r\n <IfModule mod_dav.c>\r\n  Dav off\r\n <\/IfModule>\r\n\r\n SetEnv HOME \/var\/www\/nextcloud\r\n SetEnv HTTP_HOME \/var\/www\/nextcloud\r\n\r\n<\/Directory>\r\n"
  }
{% endhighlight %}

In the above example you will notice that a `File create` script requires three fields: `destination-path`, `contents` and `root`. The last field is optional and will be `false` by default. Please notice that the `contents` value is escaped to allow good validation.

#### File append
The functionality and fields are like `File create`. The only difference is that it will append the `contents` to file specified by `destination-path`.

## Remote post-installation script
A plugin (downloaded by a `Remote` script and ending on `*.ppl`), now supports multiple scripts. Before version 2.5 only one post-installation script type was allowed.

# Contribution guidelines
As of version 2.5 only commits/PRs with the "old-fashion" message will be allowed. You can see an example [here](https://github.com/Parcks/core/commit/6fb529273409edb0aa4194126a37ee89e76ce277).

## What should it look like?
- First line capitalized indicating briefly what you've changed
- A more detailed explanation of your changes
- A list containing all the changed, added, renamed, deleted files

# TL;DR
Changed and added:
- Contribution guidelines changed
- The `Plugin` post-installation script type is now called a `Remote`
- Added the possibility to create a file
- Added the possibility to append to a file
- Downloaded post-installation scripts can now contain multiple post-installation types


Greetings,
JValck


